# Understanding palm forest carbon dynamics through height-diameter allometry, Puerto Rico

This is a publicly accessible implementation of our study, providing the R-script containing all statistical analyses, figures and tables. Upon the acceptance of our publication, we will also upload the raw data to online databases for further accessibility.

## Keywords: 
Aboveground biomass, Arecaceae, environmental heterogeneity, forest dynamics, neotropics, Prestoea acuminata var. montana (Graham)
## Abstract:
Tropical forests are major components of Earth’s carbon stocks, but their diversity and structural complexity challenge our ability to accurately estimate carbon stocks and dynamics. Palms, in particular, are prominent components of many tropical forests that have unique anatomical, physiological, and allometric differences from dicot trees, which impede accurate estimates of their above-ground biomass (AGB). In this study, we focused on improving height estimates and, ultimately, AGB estimates for a highly abundant palm in Puerto Rico, Prestoea acuminata. Based on field measurements of 1,215 individuals, we found a strong relationship between stem height and diameter at breast height. We also found evidence that height-diameter allometry of P. acuminata is mediated by various sources of environmental heterogeneity such as elevation, slope, and neighborhood crowding. We then examined variability in palm AGB estimates derived from two different models developed to estimate palm AGB. Finally, we applied our novel H:D allometric model with a site- and species-specific AGB model to hindcast palm AGB dynamics in the Luquillo Forest Dynamics Plot during a 35-year period of post-hurricane recovery. Overall, our study provides improved estimates of AGB in wet forests of Puerto Rico and will facilitate novel insights to the dynamics of palms in tropical forests.
### Folder desrcription:
